Add documentation for ws66i core integration (#19294)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/ws66i.markdown

---
title: Soundavo WS66i 6-Zone Amplifier
description: Instructions on how to integrate WS66i 6-Zone Home Audio Controller into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Media Player

> ha_release: 2022.5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2022.6
```

ha_config_flow: true
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_codeowners:
  - '@ssaenger'
ha_domain: ws66i
ha_platforms:
  - media_player
---

> The `ws66i` platform allows you to control the [Soundavo Whole-Home Audio Amplifier](https://www.soundavo.com/products/ws-66i) via the local network. This amplifier is an upgrade of the amplifier sold by [Monoprice](https://www.monoprice.com/product?p_id=10761) that adds 2 built-in wireless streamers and an Ethernet port for control over LAN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Soundavo WS66i 6-Zone Amplifier integration allows you to control the [Soundavo Whole-Home Audio Amplifier](https://www.soundavo.com/products/ws-66i) via the local network. This amplifier is an upgrade of the amplifier sold by [Monoprice](https://www.monoprice.com/product?p_id=10761) that adds 2 built-in wireless streamers and an Ethernet port for control over LAN.
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Configuration Notes

Enter the IP Address of the WS66i amplifier when prompted to connect to the device and hit submit. It will detect the number of connected amplifiers and present each zone as an entity.

- 1 Amplifier: Zones 11..16
- 2 Amplifiers: Zones 11..16, Zones 21..26
- 3 Amplifiers: Zones 11..16, Zones 21..26, Zones 31..36

Once detected, you can add them to an area.

## Source Management

You can configure source names by hitting the **CONFIGURE** button in the integration card.

## Services

### Service `ws66i.snapshot`

> Take a snapshot of one or more zones' states. This service, and the following one are useful if you want to play a doorbell or notification sound and resume playback afterward.

Reviewer: We have scenes that provide this functionality in Home Assistant, why does this integration provide its own logic for this?

The following attributes are stored in a snapshot:

- Power status (On/Off)
- Mute status (On/Off)
- Volume level
- Source

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | no | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`s of zones.

> ### Service `ws66i.restore`

Reviewer: Same as above, scenes provide this functionality in Home Assistant, why does this add duplicate logic to Home Assistant?
